
   M51A     Logic Design of Digital Systems     Richard Korf     Fall 2016

	      Assignment 2 - Due Wednesday, October 12, 2 p.m.

 1. Most inexpensive digital devices that display numbers, such as watches and
 calculators, make use of a seven-segment display for each digit.  By
 selectively turning on and turning off the different segments of the display,
 any of the ten decimal digits can be displayed.  Internally, however, a digit
 is represented in binary coded decimal (BCD).  A combinational circuit, called
 a seven-segment decoder, is required to translate the BCD representation into
 the seven segment representation for display.  There are four inputs to this
 circuit, labelled w, x, y, z, corresponding to the four bits of the BCD
 digit. w is the most significant digit, and z is the least significant digit.
 There are seven outputs, labelled a, b, c, d, e, f, g, corresponding to the
 seven segments of the display.  Generate a truth table that specifies which
 segments are turned on, i.e. equal to one, in order to specify each decimal
 digit.  The appearance of each digit, along with the labelling of the segments,
 is given below.  For each output, draw a Karnaugh map.  From each Karnaugh map,
 write both a minimal sum of products expression and a minimal product of sums
 expression.  For clarity, draw two copies of the Karnaugh map for each output,
 grouping the sum of product terms on one and the product of sum terms on the
 other.  List the input literals in alphabetical order in your expressions.

 2. In addition to NAND and NOR, find four more two-input boolean functions that
 are each individually universal.  Give a logic expression for each of your
 functions, using AND, OR, and NOT, and prove that each of these functions is
 individually universal, by showing that you can implement AND, OR, and NOT with
 your function.  You may use the constant values zero and one as inputs to your
 universal functions to implement other functions.  Name your functions f1, f2,
 f3, and f4, and then use these names for the operator symbol.  i.e. "X f1 Y"
 would signify applying the f1 function to X and Y.

