   M51A     Logic Design of Digital Systems     Richard Korf     Fall 2016

	      Assignment 3 - Due Wednesday, October 19, 2 p.m.

    DO NOT CONSULT ANY OUTSIDE REFERENCES OR WEBSITES FOR THIS PROBLEM SET
 
 1. Using NPN bipolar transistors (described in class), design circuits for an
 AND gate, an OR gate, and a buffer gate.  A buffer is a one-input gate whose
 output equals its input, and is used to amplify a logic signal.  Your AND and
 OR gates may only use two transistors each, while the buffer may only use one.
 You also may use a single resistor in each gate.  For each gate, indicate what
 wired logic function would be performed if you connect the outputs of two of
 the gates together.  In your gate designs, the output should always be pulled
 either to ground or to the voltage source.

 2. A PNP bipolar transistor behaves similar to the NPN transistor described in
 class, except that with no charge on the base, the circuit between emitter and
 collector is closed, while with a positive charge on the base, the circuit
 between emitter and collector is open.  Design circuits for an inverter,
 buffer, AND, OR, NAND, and NOR gates using only PNP transistors.  The two-input
 gates may only use two transistors each, while the one-input gates may only use
 one transistor each.  In addition, you may use a single resistor in each gate.
 The symbol for a PNP transistor has the little arrow on the collector pointing
 toward the base instead of out of the transistor.  (On the NPN transistor, the
 arrow is Not Pointing iN.)  For each gate, indicate what wired logic function
 would be performed if you connect the outputs of two of the gates together.  In
 your gate designs, the output should always be pulled either to ground or to
 the voltage source.

 3. Using a combination of NPN and PNP bipolar transistors, design circuits for
 exclusive-OR and equivalence gates.  The exclusive-OR function is one if and
 only if exactly one of the inputs is one, but not both.  The equivalence
 function is one if and only if both inputs have the same value.  Minimize the
 number of transistors needed.  For each gate, indicate what wired logic
 function would be performed if you connect the outputs of two of the gates
 together.  In your gate designs, the output should always be pulled either to
 ground or to the voltage source.

 4. Using CMOS transistors (NMOS and PMOS), design circuits for AND, OR, and
 buffer gates.  You may use two transistors per input, but no resistors.  In
 your gate designs, the output should always be pulled either to ground or to
 the voltage source.

 5. The is no special relationship between digital logic and electronic
 circuits.  Logic could also be implemented by other physical systems.  All that
 is really required is a means of representing and transmitting signals, and a
 switching device.  For example, water flowing in pipes could replace electrons
 flowing in wires.  The logic convention we will use is that a one will be
 represented by a pipe with a certain positive water pressure in it, and a zero
 by no water pressure.  Design a water "transistor".  This would be a three pipe
 device that behaves as follows: if there is no water pressure on the "base"
 pipe, no water can flow between the "emitter" and "collector" pipes.
 Conversely, if there is sufficient water pressure on the base, water can flow
 between emitter and collector.  Give a sketch of your device, and a brief
 explanation of how it works.  Strive for simplicity in your design.








