Chapter 6 Files

More on File Programming
	Suppose we want our program to work no matter how many tokens are in the file.
	Use the Scanner tests for valid input methods:
		hasNext();
		hasNextInt();
		hasNextDouble();
	
	The first method returns true if there's a next token.
	The next two methods return true if there is a next token and it can be read as an int or a double.

Database
	When are you using a database?
	A	- Selecting an email from your address book
		- Search the internet
		- When you use an ATM card
		- Buying something online

	A database is a collection of data stored in some organized fashion.

	People often use the term database to refer to the database software they are running. Database software is actually called the
	Database Management System (DBMS).

	The database is the container of the data created and manipulated via the Database Management System (DBMS).

	A specific database is made up of one or more tables.

	Table
		A structured list of data of a specific type.


	The key to remember is that the data stored in the table is one type of data or one list.
	You would never store a list of customers and a list of orders in the same table.

	Every table has a unique name. However, you can reuse table names in different databases.

	Schema
		Information about database and table layout and properties.

	Columns
		A single field in a table. All tables are made up of one or more columns.

	Row
		A record in a table.

Primary Key
	Every row in a table should have some column or set of columns that uniquely identifies it. A primary key value(s) should uniquely
	identify every row in the table.
	
	Exp) An employee table might use an employee ID or a Social Security number column as a primary key.

	Without a primary key, updating or deleting specific rows in a table would be difficult.

Primary Key Rules
	1. No two rows can have the same primary key value.
	2. Every row must have a primary key value (no null's are allowed)

Primary key Best Practices
	- Don't update primary key values
	- Don't reuse (i.e. repeat) primary key values
	- Don't use values that might change

What is SQL
	SQL is an abbreviation for Structured Query language. SQL is a language designed specifically for communicating with datbases.

What are some advantages of SQL
	1. It is not a proprietary language. Almost every Database Management System supports SQL.
	2. Easy to understand.
	3. Despite its apparent simplicity, SQL is a very powerful language.